Of course, so let's now look at some
of the other methods available to array list.
Now that this slide should look a little familiar,
we saw a similar one in section five.
In this slide, we've removed the a array column,
we're just showing the array list methods,
most of which are on the list interface.
So for comparison purposes,
we've got equals and is empty as array list methods.
The searches contains, contains all, index of
and last index of again, this is array list methods.
Data manipulation, add, add all, clear, for each, get,
hash code, remove, remove all, remove if, replace all,
retain all, set, size and sort.
And for data transformation, copy of from Java 10,
iterator, list iterator, of from Java nine, split iterator
from Java eight sub list into array.
In section five I showed almost all the methods
of the list interface, but let's review
the data manipulation methods here.
Because most of our previous review reference methods
we could use, with a list backed by an array,
and removing and adding data was not supported.
But this time, we'll use an array list instance.
So I'm gonna paste some code below
the other code in the main method.
Okay, so there's the code that I pasted in.
If you scroll up and have a look,
you see it standing alone 47 you wanna pasted in.
The first loop there, it's data to an array list
without specifying an index,
so the data is appended to the end of the list.
The second loop, that adds the elements at index one,
so you see the elements moved as the new element is added.
And in addition, I'm also demonstrating add all here
with a collection of inter-values,
appearing at the end of the list,
and also inserting at a specific index position.
And obviously, we've got some output there as well
to output the results.
So if I run this code.
So you can see the code below,
or the output rather from the code below.
Never surprises but noting in some cases where the data
has been inserted based on the index position.
Right, so I'm going to paste in some more code.
And let's then talk about what that's going to do.
First example was using the remove method to remove
a single element and only the first match
using that tab remove method.
Within demonstrating remove if to remove a matching element.
Next replace all replacing values in the array
using a lambda expression.
Using replace all again to put it back the way they were.
Using removal to remove a set of elements,
like that the list you pass remove all may contain elements
that are not in this trigger,
right it will remove matched elements.
And down the bottom line of 104 using
retain all to keep only a defined set of elements
using that method.
Then once we're printing out some objects down the bottom
using for each with a lambda expression.
So let's run this.
And you could see the appropriate output
at the bottom of the screen there.
Alright, so I want to review again two methods
that were added to the list interface since Java nine.
List dot of, which was introduced in Java nine
and list dot copy of which was introduced in Java 10.
So both of these are static factory methods,
creating unmodifiable lists.
The object return is an instantiation of a member type
defined in the immutable collections class.
And static final class list in a domino operator a extends
abstract immutable domino
operator E implements serializable.
That's the definition of some features of these list objects
are firstly that are not modifiable.
Elements cannot be added, removed or replaced.
If the elements themselves are mutable,
this may cause the list's contents to appear to change.
They also disallow null elements, attempts to create them
with null elements result in a null pointer exception.
Thirdly, the order of elements in the list is the same
as the order of the provided arguments
or of the elements in the provided array.
So we did review code with this in section five.
But let's just review it one more time.
What we're going to do is create a new class
and paste some code in.
We're going to call this one factory examples.
So you can see what I'm doing that we're creating
an array list, original list.
We're adding elements to that list that we're using
list dot copy of, and I'm printing out the results.
So let's run this.
And there is the result, so the code simply created
an array list, populated it with some test data,
then used list dot copy of both lists were then printed out.
Right, so let's now test the veracity of the statements
that knows and not allowed.
So let's actually get into the bottom
of the main method on paste and coding.
All right, so there's the code, you see what we do,
once you're circling through then using set to add
a value and for one element, we're trying to set the value
to null then we're printing it out
and we're trying to make a fresh copy.
So let's run this code noting that obviously,
from the capacity perspective, it's happy.
But if you run it, you can see there, we've got a runtime
exception, no point of exception, specifically on lines 32.
That's when we try to make a copy of the list.
Then what we could do there, we can change this
make it list dot copy of original list,
and we change that and edit that revise the code
to be original list dot sub list zero comma five
and then print it out, copied list
if we run that we now find it works.
And we find it works and the reason that works
is we're creating a copy of the list up to
but not including the null value.
This record we had specifically had an L statement
executing there in that position to set that appropriate
element to know we're obviously bypassing that in our list
copy using original list dot sub list.
So the list dot copy of method isn't overloaded
and therefore only takes a collection as a parameter.
Now the list dot of method on the other hand,
which returns the same top of a mutable list has 13
overloaded methods, let's just look at three of them.
So we're gonna paste some more coding.
All right, that's the code, so you can see online 36
we're creating test data.
Moving on using list dot of noting that it can accept
an array and printing out the results.
List dot of can also accept a variable list of elements
and we're doing that on line 43 and for the list dot of can
be code with no parameters at all
and we're doing that online 47.
So if we run this and there's the results
at the bottom of the screen.
Now below in here if I said I knew
what an empty immutable list was useful for.
Let's end the video here and in the next one will start
turning our attention to the two array method.
See you in the next video.